C++ is the tool and the core guidelines is
the beginnings of a rule book about how to use it well.
It was a project, I started it,
and I found other people were having the same kind of idea that you can't just
give people a power tool like that without telling them how to do it, use it.
So I joined up with some friends of mine that works at
Microsoft and some at Facebook now,
and some Googlers have contributed,
some people from CERN has contributed.
If you go to GitHub,
you can find that there are lots and lots of contributors,
and even more gives us ideas when we talk.
Basically, it's an attempt to say what's good programming.
How can we can what a good programmer knows about modern C++.
So the way it's organized is first, there's introduction,
about 25 pages or so of basically philosophy because you
can't give specific rules that are
coherent without some notion of what's the overall aims,
what's the overall design,
what are the rules of the game in general.
So if people want to start to use the core guidelines,
read the first pages about philosophy and such and take from what it is.
It's philosophy.
But then comes the real rules,
which says this is a way you can use a for loop.
This is a way you can organize your error handling.
This is what you have to be careful when you write concurrent code and
there are several hundred rules of that sort,
and pick some, and read them and see if they make sense to you.
See if they're applicable to your code base and the way you do things.
This is what we do now.
But that's not the way it's designed.
What we've really, really want is a static analyzer that runs over your code,
and then tells you, this piece of code breaks rule number C33.
This thing here look at rule F13.
With a bit of luck, you can click on that message,
and it will drop you into the core guidelines,
and all the core guidelines are organized like this here.
First, there is the number and what it's called,
which is a descriptive title,
then there's a rationale,
usually one to three lines short,
then an example, and then anything else you want to know.
So for the more interesting rules,
there'll be several examples,
and there will be notes and reminders and things like that.
But the way we want to get to is that you don't actually go and read the rules,
you fire them up on your tool,
and it'll tell you what to read.
A beginning of that can be found now in Microsoft Visual Studio.
Microsoft guys wasn't works on that.
That's probably the best one just now.
It ships with every Visual Studio.
You may have to install it, but it's there,
and there's a bit coming in the Klang-Tidy has some of the rules too.
So we're working on it.